[MRG] Updates to SVM User Guide (#16769)
scikit-learn/scikit-learn: doc/modules/svm.rst

    4

> On the other hand, :class:`LinearSVC` implements "one-vs-the-rest"

Author: The whole section is about "multiclass classification"

Also the example below is an illustration of multiclass, not binary as the sentence suggests, so it's misleading

function for building the model does not care about training points
that lie beyond the margin. Analogously, the model produced by Support
Vector Regression depends only on a subset of the training data,
because the cost function ignores samples whose prediction is close to their
target.

There are three different implementations of Support Vector Regression:
:class:`SVR`, :class:`NuSVR` and :class:`LinearSVR`. :class:`LinearSVR`

> provides a faster implementation than :class:`SVR` but only considers

Author: I removed it because there was no "further details" at the time, but I actually added some so yeah I'll put it back ^^

storage requirements increase rapidly with the number of training
vectors. The core of an SVM is a quadratic programming problem (QP),
separating support vectors from the rest of the training data. The QP
solver used by the `libsvm`-based implementation scales between
:math:`O(n_{features} \times n_{samples}^2)` and
:math:`O(n_{features} \times n_{samples}^3)` depending on how efficiently
the `libsvm` cache is used in practice (dataset dependent). If the data
is very sparse :math:`n_{features}` should be replaced by the average number
of non-zero features in a sample vector.

> 

Reviewer: don't the `liblinear` and `libsvm` actually point to the right places?

    >>> rbf_svc.kernel
    'rbf'

> Parameters of the RBF Kernel

Author: I just moved that up

    >>> from sklearn.datasets import make_classification
    >>> from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split 
    >>> from sklearn import svm
    >>> X, y = make_classification(n_samples=10, random_state=0)
    >>> X_train , X_test , y_train, y_test = train_test_split(X, y, random_state=0)
    >>> clf = svm.SVC(kernel='precomputed')
    >>> # linear kernel computation
    >>> gram_train = np.dot(X_train, X_train.T)
    >>> clf.fit(gram_train, y_train)
    SVC(kernel='precomputed')
    >>> # predict on training examples
    >>> gram_test = np.dot(X_test, X_train.T)
    >>> clf.predict(gram_test)
    array([0, 1, 0])

.. _svm_mathematical_formulation:

Mathematical formulation
========================

A support vector machine constructs a hyper-plane or set of hyper-planes in a
high or infinite dimensional space, which can be used for
classification, regression or other tasks. Intuitively, a good
separation is achieved by the hyper-plane that has the largest distance
to the nearest training data points of any class (so-called functional
margin), since in general the larger the margin the lower the
generalization error of the classifier. The figure below shows the decision

> function for a separable problem, with three samples within the margin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
function for a linearly separable problem, with three samples on the margin
```
maybe?

Author: indeed these are on the margin but in general, i.e. when classes aren't separable, the SVs are "within" the margin boundary

boundaries, called "support vectors":

.. figure:: ../auto_examples/svm/images/sphx_glr_plot_separating_hyperplane_001.png
   :align: center
   :scale: 75

We recommend [#5]_ and [#6]_ as good references for the theory and
practicalities of SVMs.

SVC
---

Given training vectors :math:`x_i \in \mathbb{R}^p`, i=1,..., n, in two classes, and a
vector :math:`y \in \{1, -1\}^n`, our goal is to find :math:`w \in
\mathbb{R}^p` and :math:`b \in \mathbb{R}` such that the prediction given by
:math:`\text{sign} (w^T\phi(x) + b)` is correct for most samples.

SVC solves the following primal problem:

.. math::

    \min_ {w, b, \zeta} \frac{1}{2} w^T w + C \sum_{i=1}^{n} \zeta_i

    \textrm {subject to } & y_i (w^T \phi (x_i) + b) \geq 1 - \zeta_i,\\
    & \zeta_i \geq 0, i=1, ..., n

Intuitively, we're trying to maximize the margin (by minimizing
:math:`||w||^2 = w^Tw`), while incurring a penalty when a sample is
misclassified or within the margin boundary. Ideally, the value :math:`y_i
(w^T \phi (x_i) + b)` would be :math:`\geq 1` for all samples, which
indicates a perfect prediction. But problems are usually not always perfectly

> separable, so we allow some samples to be at a distance :math:`\zeta_i` from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
separable with a hyperplane, so we allow some samples to be at a distance :math:`\zeta_i` from
```
not sure about the emphasis on the hyperplane

   \textrm {subject to } & y^T \alpha = 0\\
   & 0 \leq \alpha_i \leq C, i=1, ..., n

> where :math:`e` is the vector of all ones,

Reviewer: maybe leave C in and say it's the upper bound for alphas?

Author: ok done

and :math:`Q` is an :math:`n` by :math:`n` positive semidefinite matrix,
:math:`Q_{ij} \equiv y_i y_j K(x_i, x_j)`, where :math:`K(x_i, x_j) = \phi (x_i)^T \phi (x_j)`
is the kernel. The terms :math:`\alpha_i` are called the dual coefficients.
This dual representation highlights the fact that training vectors are
implicitly mapped into a higher (maybe infinite)

> dimensional space by the function :math:`\phi`.

Reviewer: It's really tricky to explain why the dual highlights this fact. Hmm

Author: "tricky"

I see what you did there.

(all jokes aside yeah, we can't really explain that unless we explain the kernel trick. I'll add a link to https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kernel_method which is reasonably good)

Once the optimization problem is solved, the output of
:term:`decision_function` for a given sample :math:`x` becomes:

.. math:: \sum_{i\in SV} y_i \alpha_i K(x_i, x) + b,

and the predicted class correspond to its sign. We only need to sum over the
support vectors (i.e. the samples that lie within the margin) because the
dual coefficients :math:`\alpha_i` are zero for the other samples.

These parameters can be accessed through the attributes ``dual_coef_``
which holds the product :math:`y_i \alpha_i`, ``support_vectors_`` which
holds the support vectors, and ``intercept_`` which holds the independent
term :math:`b`

.. note::

>     While SVM models derived from `libsvm` and `liblinear` use ``C`` as

Reviewer: same here with links.

    estimator used is :class:`sklearn.linear_model.Ridge <ridge>` regression,
    the relation between them is given as :math:`C = \frac{1}{alpha}`.

LinearSVC
---------

The primal problem can be equivalently formulated as

.. math::

    \min_ {w, b} \frac{1}{2} w^T w + C \sum_{i=1}\max(0, y_i (w^T \phi(x_i) + b)),

where we make use of the `hinge loss
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hinge_loss>`_. This is the form that is
directly optimized by :class:`LinearSVC`, but unlike the dual form, this one

> does not involve inner products between samples, so the infamous kernel trick

Reviewer: it's not _infamous_, is it? ;) (to me the work has a negative connotation, whereas the kernel trick is awesome)

Author: ah totally, I didn't know about the negative connotation. Will change

   \textrm {subject to } & e^T (\alpha - \alpha^*) = 0\\
   & 0 \leq \alpha_i, \alpha_i^* \leq C, i=1, ..., n

where :math:`e` is the vector of all ones,
:math:`Q` is an :math:`n` by :math:`n` positive semidefinite matrix,
:math:`Q_{ij} \equiv K(x_i, x_j) = \phi (x_i)^T \phi (x_j)`
is the kernel. Here training vectors are implicitly mapped into a higher
(maybe infinite) dimensional space by the function :math:`\phi`.

> The prediction is:

Reviewer: But it is the prediction is the sign of this, isn't it?

Author: That's for regression (I did fix it for classification)
